								DVD - 1

1.Future tense
2.present tense
3.past tense
4.present continuous tense
5.past continuous tense, Future continous tense
6.Present perfect tense
7.Past perfect tense, Future perfect tense
8.Present,Past,Future perfect continuous tense
9.All tense
10.Modal Auxiliaries - 
Can, Can't -1.Asking - Can I have your mobile number please? 
      	    2.Request - Can you switch on the fan please?
            3.Permission - Can I go, Can I make a phone call please, Can I sit here? - Yes, you can.
            4.Ability - I can speak English fluently.
            5.Asking Ability - Can you speak English fluently, Can you help me, Can you come with me?
            6.Offering - Can I get you some coffee, Can I get you some more rice?

11.Could, Couldn't - 1.Ability in the past - When I was young, I could run fast.
                     COULD is more polite than CAN
		     2.Polite Request - Could you please fill this form sir?
		     3.Permission - Could I use your mobile?
		     4.Asking Information - Could you please tell me - how to do this, how to get to the bus station?
		     
12.May, May not - 1.Possibility, Guess - She may come, It may rain, She may be coming, What she say may be right.
		  2.Asking and Giving permission - May I come in, May I ask you a question? - Yes, You may come.
		  3.polite Asking Information - May I know your name, May I know about you?
		  4.Wishes - May God bless you.
   Might, Might not.

13.Shall, Shan't - 1.Doing something - Shall we go by bike, Shall we have some fresh juice, Shall we discuss about cricket? - of course
		   2.Opinion, Asking advice - Shall I do like this, What shall I do next, Shall I go there?
		   3.Helping - Shall I help you, Shall I do this instead of you, Shall I drop you in my bike?
		   

14.Should, Shouldn't - 
1.For giving Advice - 
You should take care of your parents.
You should stop smoking.
You should study well.
You should not tell lies.
You should not behave like this.
2.For asking Advice - Do you think I should go there?
3.For asking Something - Should I come tomorrow, Should I do this, Should I meet him in person? 
4.Obligations - We should obey the laws, We should take care of our parents.
5.Angry - Why should I do this, Why should I eat this, Why should I go there?

Must, Mustn't - 1.Command - You must stop smoking, You must come, You must complete before you go.
		2.Definitely - She must be home.
ought to, ought to not -1.without emphasis - You ought to study, You ought to understand her.

15.Would, Wouldn't - 1.would you like to have a cup of coffee, Would you like to marry me? - I don't like to....
   		     What would you like to have sir?
		     2.Past habit - When I was young, I would play cricket, I would study well.
		     3.Habit - He would always come late to work, She would be always beautiful, She would always like that.

Dare, Dare not - How dare you come here, How dare you beat my girl? I dare say you have done a mistake.
		 I dare not oppose her. 

Need is main verb - I need a bike.

Neednot - You need not say anything, you need not come tomorrow. 

16.Have to, has to, had to, will have to, used to

17.Going to - am, is, are, was, were
   Want, Want to, wanted to
   Able to- am, is, are, was, were, 
   Ask to - ask him to come.

18.Should have, Would have, Could have, Must have, May have, Might have
Shouldnot have, Wouldnot have, Couldnot have, Mustnot have, Maynot have, Mightnot have

19.She is to come here, was
   Let her come, Let me say
   She had better go, she had better not go.
   She seem to be coming
   She make me to be good, She will make me to be good.

20.Articles - a, an, the

21.Verbs 

22.Adjectives - good, tall, strong, beautiful
   
23.Auxiliary or Be verbs - am, is, are, was, were, will be
   She is coming.
   I am a software engineer.
   She is beautiful girl.
   I am in Trichy.
   She is to come.
   I am invited by her.

   There is a bike,mobile,computer.
   She is there.

24.Word war.....



								DVD - 3

51.Parts of speech - Noun - Anitha, Pronoun - her, Verb - come, Adjective - beautiful, 
Adverb - happily,perfectly, Preposition - in,to,for etc..., Conjunction - and,or,but,because etc..., Interjection - Alas,wow,hurray... 

52.Noun - Family,Army,class,team  - is,was, Families,Armies,classes,teams are,were.

56.Kinds of Pronouns -I,You,We,They,He,She,It - me,you,us,them,him,her,it - 
my,your,his,her,its,our,their - mine,yours,his,hers,its,ours,thiers - myself,ourselves,yourself,yourselves,himself,herself,themselves,itself - I myself did this, She herself told me her love.

59.Conjunctions - whenever,wherever,however,whatever,whoever,whichever
		  Because,as,Since
                  So,therefore,hence
		  or,else,otherwise
		  She is not only beautiful but also a good heart.
		  She will eat either rice or bread.
		  She likes neither tea nor coffee.
		  She likes both bread and butter.
		  Whether you come or not, I don't know Whether she likes me or not, I don't know whether to say yes or no

		  She is good hearted as well as me .
		  As soon as I saw that, I decided to get that.
         	  I learn English in order that I may get a better job. - so that
		  I love her even if she avoids me.
		
65.Active voice, Passive voice - present tense, past tense, future tense, present continuous tense, past continuous tense,
				 present perfect tense, past perfect tense, future perfect tense.

66.Active voice, Passive voice - Modal auxiliaries - can be done, could be done, must be done, would be done, have to be done,etc.......   
			       - open the window - Let the window be opened, 
			       - don't open the window - Let the window not be opened.
			       1.Who saved the child? - By whom was the child saved?
  			       2.When did you buy it? - When was it bought by you?
			       3.Whom did they select? - Who was selected by them?
			       4.Do they use it? - Is it used by them?
			       5.Will they eat it? - Will it be eaten by them?

67.Direct-Indirect - John said,'I am ready' - John said that he was ready.
		     John said,'He can run' - John said that he could run.
		     John said to Rossi,'I am waiting for you' - John told Rossi that he was waiting for him.
		     John said to Rossi,'My father have gone out' - John told Rossi that his father had gone out.
		     John said to Rossi,'I will meet you tomorrow' - John told Rossi that He would meet him the next day.
		     John said,'This bike is for sale now' - John said that that bike was for sale then.
		     She said,'He comes here often' - She said that he came there often.

		     Anitha said to Rossi,'Are you waiting?' - Anitha asked Rossi whether/if he was waiting.
		     Anitha said to Rossi,'Have you finished your work?' - Anitha asked Rossi whether/if He had finished his work.
		     Anitha said to Rossi,'Is this yours?' - Anitha asked Rossi whether/if that was his.
		     Anitha asked Rossi,'Are you ready?' - Anitha asked Rossi whether/if He was ready.
		     Anitha said to Rossi,'Does she come here?' - Anitha asked Rossi whether/if she came there.
		     Anitha said to Rossi,'Does not she come here?' - Anitha asked Rossi whether/if she didnot come there.

		     Anitha asked me,'Where are you?' - Anitha asked me where I was.
		     Anitha asked me,'Where are you working?' - Anitha asked me where I was working.
 		     Anitha said to me,'Why are you late today?' - Anitha asked me why I was late that day.
 		     Anitha asked me,'Who rings the bell?' - Anitha asked me who rang the bell.

		     Anitha said,'John get out' - Anitha ordered John to get out.
		     Anitha said,'clean the room' - Anitha requested to clean the room.
		     Anitha said to me,'don't go' - Anitha advised me not to go.
		     and like these commanded, threatened, warned, told

		     Anitha said,'What a beautiful flower' - Anitha exclaimed that the flower was beautiful.
		     I said,'What a pretty girl she is' - I exclaimed that she was a pretty girl.  
				
				adjective - tall-taller-tallest, beautiful-more beautiful-most beautiful
68.Degrees of comparison - Positive degree - He is as tall as me, He is not so tall as me.
			   Comparitive degree - He is taller than me, Moonar is cooler than ooty. 
			   Superlative degree - He is the tallest boy in the team.

70.Infinitives - 1 - We eat to live, She came to meet me, she will come to help me.
		 2 - She is to come here, I am to marry her, I was to maary her, Her duty is to cook.
		 3 - To find fault is easy or It is easy to find falut.
	             To be with you is happy or It is happy to be with you.
		     To speak ill of others is a bad habit or It is a bad habit to speak ill of others.
		 4 - They are ready to start, It is easy to do, This room is not comfortable to study.
		 5 - I don't know what to say, She doesn't know how to cook biriyani, She has understood what to do and what not to do,
		     Don't you know how to come.
		 6 - Give him a pen to write, Give me something to eat, This is not the time to play.
		 7 - She asked me to wait for five minutes, She allowed me to ride on the bike.
		   - ask her to come in, ask him to go.
		 8 - I happened to be staying there, I happened to be waiting for her, He pretended to be sleeping,
		     She seems to be worrying, He appears to be living there.
		 9 - A seminar is to be conducted, The match is to be started at 5'o clock, A new bike is to be launched from Yamaha.
		 10 - She pretended to have seen me or She pretended that she had seen me.
  	  	      I seem to have seen her before or It seems that I have seen her before. 
		      I am glad to have met you or I am glad that I have met you.

71.Gerund - verbal noun - 1 - subject - Finding fault with others is easy, Swimming is good exercise, Smoking is injurious to health.
			  2 - object - I like riding a bike, They stopped talking, I remember you seeing at the bus station.
			  3 - after preposition - He was punished for stealing money, She locked her house before going out.
			  It's no use of - going now, repairing this. 
			  4 - Before having lunch,wash your hands. After seeing her,I decided to marry.
			  5 - after noun/pronoun - I appreciated her dancing, I can't bear people smoking in public areas.
			      Do you remember my asking? Can you show his drawing?
			  6 - as complement - Her duty is cooking, What all I know is teaching, What all he knows is stealing,
			      Its duty is barking, one of his bad habits is smoking.
			  7 - Phrasal verbs - He gave up smoking, She keeps on talking.
			  8 - Mind,Need,Want,Require - I don't mind waiting, would you mind waiting for me?
			      This machine needs oiling, The mobile needs charging, 
			      This floor wants cleaning, My shirt wants ironing.

absent minded, money minded, feeble minded, broad minded, mean minded, narrow minded.
I have made up my mind